
TyStudio v0.5.0
---------------

TyStudio is a GPL'ed set of tools for extracting, editing, and converting
of tivo tystreams to standard video/audio formats. This is done without
re-encoding, so its a rather fast process. TyStudio is also entirely
standards based; Every component of tystudio can be substituted with your
favorite third party software (except tydemux of course).

TyStudio is currently under heavy development. Future abilities of TyStudio
will include streaming video strait from your tivo unit, as well as the
direct conversion to DVD format, to include the necessary tools for making
your own DVD menus, and everything else that you could possibly want out of
a DVD. This would happen a lot faster if we had more developers to help,
hint hint. :)

Currently TyStudio is comprised of the following elements:

    Conversion tools:
    -----------------

	- TyEditor: Currently the front end of TyStudio. From this tool,
	    you can extract and edit your tystreams (or you can edit them
	    without extracting), and pass all of the conversion options
	    strait to the rest of the components in only a few steps.
	
	- TyDemux: This is the core of TyStudio; This program is what makes
	    everything we do possible. For the most part, it converts tivo's
	    proprietary tystream format to standard MPEG-2. It also corrects
	    all types errors that are in the MPEG streams, from fixing holes,
	    replacing missing video frames, to fixing sync problems. Even
	    the worst MPEG stream errors, which tivo streams are full of,
	    don't stand a chance against it.
	
	- TyProcess: <need documentation from author before I can accurately
	    describe it>
	
	- TyTranscode: This tool handles all of the audio conversion. You
	    can convert MPEG to AC3 (Dolby Digital), or vice versa. You can
	    also change the sampling rates or bit rates of the audio as well.
	    This tool is very valuable for making streams compatible with
	    standard DVD, SVCD, or whatever other format you so desire.
	    
	- TyMplex: The final step in the conversion process. Once you have
	    your tystream converted to your liking, it is rebuilt
	    (multiplexed) into the format of your choice by this component.

    Functional tools:
    -----------------
    
	- TyIndex: This is an indexing daemon that runs on your tivo and uses
	    its spare processing time to index your shows in advance. This
	    way, you do not need to wait each time you want to index a stream,
	    because its already been done for you.
	
	- TyServer: A daemon that silently runs on your tivo, awaiting requests
	    by the other tools to list all of your recordings, get information
	    about each recording, or directly extract any given recording.
	    Unlike most programs that already do this, this one is written
	    entirely in C. This means that it's faster, and more stable than any
	    other software of this kind.
	
	- TyLS: This will communicate directly with the TyServer to get a
	    listing of your current recordings.
	
	- TyGet: This tool downloads recordings on your tivo from TyServer.
	
	- TyChopper: This useful little tool allows you to cut up portions of
	    a tystream in order to only send the bad portions of it (instead of
	    the whole ensalada) to the authors for debugging so that they can
	    fix the problem that your stream has for a future release.

    Please see each tools respective documentation for more information.

**** SPECIAL NOTE FOR PEOPLE USING JDINERS TYTOOL ****
------------------------------------------------------

Theres a bug with the method that tytool uses to extract tystreams from your
tivo unit. Tystreams extracted with tytool are not guarenteed to work with
tystudios components. This is through no action of our own. The reason why is
because tytool extracted tystreams have a corrupt header, and therefore are not
a 1:1 extraction of your video stream. It is possible that we will have a
workaround for this later (and possibly a tool to repair this damage), but for
the time being, there is none.

How to Get TyStudio:
--------------------

TyStudio is made available in binary form on Linux (i386), Windows, and Mac OS
X. If you want to port TyStudio to your favorite platform, the source code is
available at http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/dvd-create/.

The binary packages can be downloaded from our homepage at
http://dvd-create.sourceforge.net/tystudio/

Code structure:
---------------

* General comments:
	The code is fairly well commented and should, at a glance, be
	structurally understandable. The code is not written to be efficient
	(high speed) but to be understandable, hence the high amount of
	comments. Yes, it's not that beautiful from a programming perspective,
	but what the heck, given it's this early in it's development.

	It's a Linux/Windows/Mac application and it's endian aware, hence it
	will probably compile and run just fine on any modern Unix or Unix like
	platform. Porting help is very welcome, please see the help section.


How you can help:
-----------------


* Spelling:
	There are probably a ton of spelling errors in the code, Please help
	with it if you want. Edit the code, and do a diff -u against the old
	file, then send us the output. :)

* Patches:

	Please, if you send us patches, do so by using gnu diff (diff -u).

* Debugging:

	We naturally need as much debugging help as we can get :). Even if you
	aren't a developer, you are still very helpful if you send bug reports!

	Core dump :( if tydemux core dumps please get valgrind
	( http://developer.kde.org/~sewardj/ ), and run valgrind ./tydemux ....
	and send me the output in an e-mail.

	Errors: Tydemux doesn't do the right thing, error in extracted steams,
	etc.

	Alt 1: Increase verbose level, then send us the output

	Alt 2: Increase verbose level to find what chunk you error out on.
	Do a "dd if=your_tystream of=error_stream bs=131072 skip="skippchunk +
	chunk_nr" count=20" (you have to add the skipped chunk to the chunk_nr).
	Attach the error_stream in an e-mail and send it to us.

	Alt 3: You are a developer, find the bug and send us a patch via e-mail.
	:)

* Development:

	All development help is highly welcome - In fact we have an anonymous
	access CVS server up, see http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/dvd-create

* TyStreams:

	We need test streams - We're especially interested in DTivo Series 2 -
	if you have any streams please upload them to
	ftp://66.121.15.35/"Tivo version".

BUGS/Glitches/ToDo:
--------------

      - Currently there is no series 2 tivo support, although it is planned to
	come soon, we do not have any dev'ers who own these units to do the
	porting.
  
      - There are known issues with audio sync when converting the audio to
	44.1khz. This is being worked on, and its a high priority.
  
      - Tystreams extracted with jdiners tytool have a bug in them that
	prevents the tydemux component from reading them correctly. It's known
	how to fix it, but it's not currently one of our priorities.
  
      - No frame accurate editing. It will come with time, but it's not 
	currently a priority. Meanwhile you can use non re-encoding frame
	accurate software such as womble mpeg-vcr instead.

